documentation/source/building.rst, before:

#######################################
Build options and Environment Variables
#######################################

Make System
===========

Makefiles are provided for a variety of simulators in :file:`cocotb/makefiles/simulators`.  The common Makefile :file:`cocotb/makefiles/Makefile.sim` includes the appropriate simulator Makefile based on the contents of the ``SIM`` variable.

Make Targets
------------

Makefiles define two targets, ``regression`` and ``sim``, the default target is ``sim``.

Both rules create a results file in the calling directory called :file:`results.xml`.  This file is a JUnit-compatible output file suitable for use with `Jenkins <https://jenkins.io/>`_. The ``sim`` targets unconditionally re-runs the simulator whereas the ``regression`` target only re-builds if any dependencies have changed.


Make Phases
-----------

Typically the makefiles provided with Cocotb for various simulators use a separate ``compile`` and ``run`` target.  This allows for a rapid re-running of a simulator if none of the RTL source files have changed and therefore the simulator does not need to recompile the RTL.



Make Variables
--------------

.. glossary::

    ``GUI``
      Set this to 1 to enable the GUI mode in the simulator (if supported).
      
    ``SIM``
      Selects which simulator Makefile to use.  Attempts to include a simulator specific makefile from :file:`cocotb/makefiles/makefile.$(SIM)`
      
    ``VERILOG_SOURCES``
      A list of the Verilog source files to include.
      
    ``VHDL_SOURCES``
      A list of the VHDL source files to include.
      
    ``COMPILE_ARGS``
      Any arguments or flags to pass to the compile stage of the simulation. Only applies to simulators with a separate compilation stage (currently Icarus and VCS).
      
    ``SIM_ARGS``
      Any arguments or flags to pass to the execution of the compiled simulation.  Only applies to simulators with a separate compilation stage (currently Icarus, VCS and GHDL).
      
    ``EXTRA_ARGS``
      Passed to both the compile and execute phases of simulators with two rules, or passed to the single compile and run command for simulators which don't have a distinct compilation stage.

    ``CUSTOM_COMPILE_DEPS``
      Use to add additional dependencies to the compilation target; useful for defining additional rules to run pre-compilation or if the compilation phase depends on files other than the RTL sources listed in :term:`VERILOG_SOURCES` or :term:`VHDL_SOURCES`.
      
    ``CUSTOM_SIM_DEPS``
      Use to add additional dependencies to the simulation target.
      
    ``COCOTB_NVC_TRACE``
      Set this to 1 to enable display of VHPI traces when using the nvc VHDL simulator.
      
    ``SIM_BUILD``
      Use to define a scratch directory for use by the simulator. The path is relative to the Makefile location.
      If not provided, the default scratch directory is :file:`sim_build`.

    
Environment Variables
=====================
      
.. glossary::

    ``TOPLEVEL``
      Used to indicate the instance in the hierarchy to use as the DUT.
      If this isn't defined then the first root instance is used.
      
    ``RANDOM_SEED``
      Seed the Python random module to recreate a previous test stimulus.
      At the beginning of every test a message is displayed with the seed used for that execution:
      
      .. code-block:: bash
         
          INFO     cocotb.gpi                                  __init__.py:89   in _initialise_testbench           Seeding Python random module with 1377424946
      
      
      To recreate the same stimuli use the following:
      
      .. code-block:: bash
      
         make RANDOM_SEED=1377424946
      
    ``COCOTB_ANSI_OUTPUT``
      Use this to override the default behaviour of annotating Cocotb output with
      ANSI colour codes if the output is a terminal (``isatty()``).
      
      ``COCOTB_ANSI_OUTPUT=1`` forces output to be ANSI regardless of the type stdout
      
      ``COCOTB_ANSI_OUTPUT=0`` supresses the ANSI output in the log messages
      
    ``COCOTB_REDUCED_LOG_FMT``
      If defined, log lines displayed in terminal will be shorter. It will print only
      time, message type (``INFO``, ``WARNING``, ``ERROR``) and log message.
      
    ``MODULE``      
      The name of the module(s) to search for test functions.  Multiple modules can be specified using a comma-separated list.
      
      
    ``TESTCASE``
      The name of the test function(s) to run.  If this variable is not defined Cocotb
      discovers and executes all functions decorated with the :class:`cocotb.test` decorator in the supplied modules.
      
      Multiple functions can be specified in a comma-separated list.


Additional Environment Variables
--------------------------------

.. glossary::

    ``COCOTB_ATTACH``
      In order to give yourself time to attach a debugger to the simulator process before it starts to run,
      you can set the environment variable ``COCOTB_ATTACH`` to a pause time value in seconds.
      If set, Cocotb will print the process ID (PID) to attach to and wait the specified time before 
      actually letting the simulator run.

    ``COCOTB_ENABLE_PROFILING``
      Enable performance analysis of the Python portion of Cocotb. When set, a file :file:`test_profile.pstat`
      will be written which contains statistics about the cumulative time spent in the functions.
      
      From this, a callgraph diagram can be generated with `gprof2dot <https://github.com/jrfonseca/gprof2dot>`_ and ``graphviz``.
      See the ``profile`` Make target in the ``endian_swapper`` example on how to set this up.

    ``COCOTB_HOOKS``
      A comma-separated list of modules that should be executed before the first test.
      You can also use the :class:`cocotb.hook` decorator to mark a function to be run before test code.

    ``COCOTB_LOG_LEVEL``
      Default logging level to use. This is set to ``INFO`` unless overridden.

    ``COCOTB_RESOLVE_X``
      Defines how to resolve bits with a value of ``X``, ``Z``, ``U`` or ``W`` when being converted to integer.
      Valid settings are:

      ``VALUE_ERROR``
         raise a :exc:`ValueError` exception
      ``ZEROS``
         resolve to ``0``
      ``ONES``
         resolve to ``1``
      ``RANDOM``
         randomly resolve to a ``0`` or a ``1``

      Set to ``VALUE_ERROR`` by default.

    ``COCOTB_SCHEDULER_DEBUG``
      Enable additional log output of the coroutine scheduler.

    ``MEMCHECK``
      HTTP port to use for debugging Python's memory usage.
      When set to e.g. ``8088``, data will be presented at `<http://localhost:8088>`_.
      
      This needs the :mod:`cherrypy` and :mod:`dowser` Python modules installed.

    ``COCOTB_PY_DIR``
      Path to the directory containing the cocotb Python package in the ``cocotb`` subdirectory.

    ``COCOTB_SHARE_DIR``
      Path to the directory containing the cocotb Makefiles and simulator libraries in the subdirectories ``lib``, ``include``, and ``makefiles``.

    ``VERSION``
      The version of the Cocotb installation. You probably don't want to modify this.

Commit message:

Add VHDL_SOURCES_lib (GHDL only)
Currently, to include external libraries, the user has to manually run
ghdl before launching cocotb. With this commit, it is now possible to
specify in which library a set of VHDL files has to be placed into.
To do so, the files can be specified directly in the makefile under
the VHDL_SOURCES_lib variable. For example:

VHDL_SOURCES = top.vhd
VHDL_SOURCES_mylib = libfile.vhd libfile2.vhd

Here, libfile.vhd and libfile2.vhd will be analyzed with the
--work=mylib flag in GHDL before analyzing top.vhd.

documentation/source/building.rst, after:

#######################################
Build options and Environment Variables
#######################################

Make System
===========

Makefiles are provided for a variety of simulators in :file:`cocotb/makefiles/simulators`.  The common Makefile :file:`cocotb/makefiles/Makefile.sim` includes the appropriate simulator Makefile based on the contents of the ``SIM`` variable.

Make Targets
------------

Makefiles define two targets, ``regression`` and ``sim``, the default target is ``sim``.

Both rules create a results file in the calling directory called :file:`results.xml`.  This file is a JUnit-compatible output file suitable for use with `Jenkins <https://jenkins.io/>`_. The ``sim`` targets unconditionally re-runs the simulator whereas the ``regression`` target only re-builds if any dependencies have changed.


Make Phases
-----------

Typically the makefiles provided with Cocotb for various simulators use a separate ``compile`` and ``run`` target.  This allows for a rapid re-running of a simulator if none of the RTL source files have changed and therefore the simulator does not need to recompile the RTL.



Make Variables
--------------

.. glossary::

    ``GUI``
      Set this to 1 to enable the GUI mode in the simulator (if supported).
      
    ``SIM``
      Selects which simulator Makefile to use.  Attempts to include a simulator specific makefile from :file:`cocotb/makefiles/makefile.$(SIM)`
      
    ``VERILOG_SOURCES``
      A list of the Verilog source files to include.
      
    ``VHDL_SOURCES``
      A list of the VHDL source files to include.
      
    ``VHDL_SOURCES_lib``
      A list of the VHDL source files to include in the VHDL library *lib* (currently GHDL).
      
    ``COMPILE_ARGS``
      Any arguments or flags to pass to the compile stage of the simulation. Only applies to simulators with a separate compilation stage (currently Icarus and VCS).
      
    ``SIM_ARGS``
      Any arguments or flags to pass to the execution of the compiled simulation.  Only applies to simulators with a separate compilation stage (currently Icarus, VCS and GHDL).
      
    ``EXTRA_ARGS``
      Passed to both the compile and execute phases of simulators with two rules, or passed to the single compile and run command for simulators which don't have a distinct compilation stage.

    ``CUSTOM_COMPILE_DEPS``
      Use to add additional dependencies to the compilation target; useful for defining additional rules to run pre-compilation or if the compilation phase depends on files other than the RTL sources listed in :term:`VERILOG_SOURCES` or :term:`VHDL_SOURCES`.
      
    ``CUSTOM_SIM_DEPS``
      Use to add additional dependencies to the simulation target.
      
    ``COCOTB_NVC_TRACE``
      Set this to 1 to enable display of VHPI traces when using the nvc VHDL simulator.
      
    ``SIM_BUILD``
      Use to define a scratch directory for use by the simulator. The path is relative to the Makefile location.
      If not provided, the default scratch directory is :file:`sim_build`.

    
Environment Variables
=====================
      
.. glossary::

    ``TOPLEVEL``
      Used to indicate the instance in the hierarchy to use as the DUT.
      If this isn't defined then the first root instance is used.
      
    ``RANDOM_SEED``
      Seed the Python random module to recreate a previous test stimulus.
      At the beginning of every test a message is displayed with the seed used for that execution:
      
      .. code-block:: bash
         
          INFO     cocotb.gpi                                  __init__.py:89   in _initialise_testbench           Seeding Python random module with 1377424946
      
      
      To recreate the same stimuli use the following:
      
      .. code-block:: bash
      
         make RANDOM_SEED=1377424946
      
    ``COCOTB_ANSI_OUTPUT``
      Use this to override the default behaviour of annotating Cocotb output with
      ANSI colour codes if the output is a terminal (``isatty()``).
      
      ``COCOTB_ANSI_OUTPUT=1`` forces output to be ANSI regardless of the type stdout
      
      ``COCOTB_ANSI_OUTPUT=0`` supresses the ANSI output in the log messages
      
    ``COCOTB_REDUCED_LOG_FMT``
      If defined, log lines displayed in terminal will be shorter. It will print only
      time, message type (``INFO``, ``WARNING``, ``ERROR``) and log message.
      
    ``MODULE``      
      The name of the module(s) to search for test functions.  Multiple modules can be specified using a comma-separated list.
      
      
    ``TESTCASE``
      The name of the test function(s) to run.  If this variable is not defined Cocotb
      discovers and executes all functions decorated with the :class:`cocotb.test` decorator in the supplied modules.
      
      Multiple functions can be specified in a comma-separated list.


Additional Environment Variables
--------------------------------

.. glossary::

    ``COCOTB_ATTACH``
      In order to give yourself time to attach a debugger to the simulator process before it starts to run,
      you can set the environment variable ``COCOTB_ATTACH`` to a pause time value in seconds.
      If set, Cocotb will print the process ID (PID) to attach to and wait the specified time before 
      actually letting the simulator run.

    ``COCOTB_ENABLE_PROFILING``
      Enable performance analysis of the Python portion of Cocotb. When set, a file :file:`test_profile.pstat`
      will be written which contains statistics about the cumulative time spent in the functions.
      
      From this, a callgraph diagram can be generated with `gprof2dot <https://github.com/jrfonseca/gprof2dot>`_ and ``graphviz``.
      See the ``profile`` Make target in the ``endian_swapper`` example on how to set this up.

    ``COCOTB_HOOKS``
      A comma-separated list of modules that should be executed before the first test.
      You can also use the :class:`cocotb.hook` decorator to mark a function to be run before test code.

    ``COCOTB_LOG_LEVEL``
      Default logging level to use. This is set to ``INFO`` unless overridden.

    ``COCOTB_RESOLVE_X``
      Defines how to resolve bits with a value of ``X``, ``Z``, ``U`` or ``W`` when being converted to integer.
      Valid settings are:

      ``VALUE_ERROR``
         raise a :exc:`ValueError` exception
      ``ZEROS``
         resolve to ``0``
      ``ONES``
         resolve to ``1``
      ``RANDOM``
         randomly resolve to a ``0`` or a ``1``

      Set to ``VALUE_ERROR`` by default.

    ``COCOTB_SCHEDULER_DEBUG``
      Enable additional log output of the coroutine scheduler.

    ``MEMCHECK``
      HTTP port to use for debugging Python's memory usage.
      When set to e.g. ``8088``, data will be presented at `<http://localhost:8088>`_.
      
      This needs the :mod:`cherrypy` and :mod:`dowser` Python modules installed.

    ``COCOTB_PY_DIR``
      Path to the directory containing the cocotb Python package in the ``cocotb`` subdirectory.

    ``COCOTB_SHARE_DIR``
      Path to the directory containing the cocotb Makefiles and simulator libraries in the subdirectories ``lib``, ``include``, and ``makefiles``.

    ``VERSION``
      The version of the Cocotb installation. You probably don't want to modify this.
